> Personal Harassment Personal harassment includes any inappropriate conduct, comment, display, action or gesture by a person that: 
> 	• ==adversely affects a worker’s psychological or physical well being==; 
> 	• ==the perpetrator knows or ought to reasonably know== would cause the worker to be humiliated or intimidated; and 
> 	• constitute a threat to the health and safety of a worker.
> Personal harassment typically involves repeated occurrences. A single incident may also constitute personal harassment if it is serious or severe and is shown to have a lasting harmful effect on a worker. 
> Personal harassment may include: 
> 	• verbal or written abuse or threats; 
> 	• ==insulting, derogatory or degrading comments==, jokes or gestures; 
> 	• personal ridicule or ==malicious gossip;== 
> 	• unjustifiable interference with another’s work or work sabotage; 
> 	• ==refusing to work or co-operate with others==; or 
> 	• interference with or vandalizing personal property. 
> All incidents of inappropriate conduct should be appropriately addressed to ensure that the workplace remains respectful and free of harassment.

[[SaskGov Harassment Prevention Guide.pdf#page=5&selection=84,0,102,57|SaskGov Harassment Prevention Guide, page 5]]

> What is Not Harassment 
> ...
> Other situations that do not constitute harassment include: 
> • physical contact necessary for the performance of the work using accepted industry standards; 
> • ==conduct which all parties agree is inoffensive or welcome==; or 
> • disagreements in the workplace that are not based on one of the prohibited grounds.

[[SaskGov Harassment Prevention Guide.pdf#page=7&selection=5,0,35,19|SaskGov Harassment Prevention Guide, page 7]]

> ...
> Setting a good example 
> ==Supervisors need to be aware of their behaviour and how it influences the workplace. Showing respect for workers at all levels is critical. Supervisors should never act in a way that could be seen as disrespectful or harassing. They should never approve of others acting that way.==

[[SaskGov Harassment Prevention Guide.pdf#page=9&selection=5,0,19,9|SaskGov Harassment Prevention Guide, page 9]]

> Workplace Formal Complaints and Investigations
> 	...
> 	Credibility of Witness Evidence 
> 		A fair investigation process should ensure the evidence used to make an assessment is credible. Investigators should be trained in investigative practices, including: 
> 		==• interviewing witnesses separately;== 
> 		• taking signed written statements from witnesses and providing them time to review their statements and confirm accuracy; 
> 		• avoiding hearsay and instructing witnesses to describe only what they personally know or witnessed;

[[SaskGov Harassment Prevention Guide.pdf#page=17&selection=69,0,89,13|SaskGov Harassment Prevention Guide, page 17]]