### Description
The Saskatchewan Professional Teachers Regulatory Board (SPTRB) is an independent organization charged with the responsibility of regulating the teaching profession in Saskatchewan.  The SPTRB is the provincial system of record for teaching credentials.

### Mission
The SPTRB serves the public interest by ensuring registered teachers meet professional standards for certification, conduct and competence.

### Standards of Conduct
The SPTRB Regulatory Bylaws set forth both standards and examples related to conduct:
#### Schedule J
Registered teachers have a duty to uphold the professional standards and reputation of the teaching profession and to assist in the advancement of its goals, organizations and institutions.

Integrity is the fundamental quality of registered teachers. Integrity is the foundation of the commitment made by registered teachers to learners and to the reputation of the profession.

Public confidence in the teaching profession may be bolstered by professional conduct on the part of registered teachers. Accordingly, the conduct of registered teachers should reflect favorably on the profession, inspire the respect and trust of learners and the community.

Conduct on the part of a registered teacher in either public life or professional practice will reflect upon the integrity of the profession. Teacher conduct can directly impact public trust. Registered teachers ensure public trust is upheld by adhering to these standards. Registered teachers are also expected to adhere to all applicable policies and procedures set by their employing school division, the Ministry of Education, the STF, LEADS, or any other professional organization that relates to their work as a registered teacher.

These standards set out the conduct expected of registered teachers in Saskatchewan. Each standard outlines a principle for behaviour, which allows for context to be built upon. The included indicators are examples of how the standards may be demonstrated. The standards are intended to guide the decisions and judgements of registered teachers and to inform parents, guardians, learners, and the general public of the conduct they can expect from registered teachers.
	1.  Registered Teachers base their relationships with learners on mutual trust and respect. Registered teachers demonstrate this standard when they:
		a.  maintain healthy professional expectations that place learners’ interests first, both in school and in the community;
		b. ensure that all forms of communication with learners are thoughtful, honest and appropriate;
		==c.  honour individual identity and circumstance without prejudice.==
	2. Registered Teachers have regard for the safety and academic, physical, emotional and spiritual well-being of learners. Registered teachers demonstrate this standard when they:
		 ==a.  take measures to provide and model a safe, inclusive, and respectful environment at school;==
		 b.  implement appropriate, consistent, and clearly articulated rules and expectations;
		 c.  provide effective supervision;
		 d.  follow emergency procedures;
		 e. act as prudent educators who place learners at the forefront of decisions;  	 
		 ==f.  implement classroom management practices that encourage mutual respect and cooperation.==
	3. Registered Teachers act with honesty and integrity. Registered teachers demonstrate this standard when they:
		==a. communicate openly, truthfully and respectfully with all relevant parties while maintaining necessary confidentiality;==
		b. are responsible for their assessment, evaluation, record keeping, and classroom practices;
		c. maintain an accepting classroom that promotes learning for all students.  
	 4.  Registered Teachers take responsibility for maintaining the quality of their practice. Registered teachers demonstrate this standard when they:
		a.  participate in continual self-reflection and professional learning;
		b. seek, accept, and provide feedback to improve professional practice;
		==c. work in a collaborative manner with other members of the learner’s support network.==
	5.  Registered Teachers uphold public trust and confidence in the education profession. Registered teachers demonstrate this standard when they:
		==a. are mindful of their responsibility as a role model in school, in the community, and online;==
		==b. maintain appropriate communication and professional relationships with learners, parents, guardians, colleagues, and other stakeholders;==
		==c. act in a manner that reflects positively on the teaching profession.==
	 

2.01
(1) The Saskatchewan Professional Teachers Regulatory Board adopts the Standards of Conduct set out in Schedule J.
(2) Without restricting the generality of section 33 of the Act, the following conduct on the part of a registered teacher is misconduct:
	==a. conduct which is harmful to the best interest of pupils or affects the ability of a registered teacher to teach;==
	==b. any intentional act or omission designed to humiliate or cause distress or loss of dignity to any person in school or out of school which may include verbal or non-verbal behaviour;==
	c. physically abusive conduct which involves the application of physical force which is excessive or inappropriate in the circumstances to any person;
	d. sexually abusive conduct that violates a person’s sexual integrity, whether consensual or not which includes sexual exploitation; 
	e. an act or omission that, in the circumstances, would reasonably be regarded by the profession as disgraceful, dishonourable or unprofessional;
	f. being in violation of a law if the violation is relevant to the registered teacher’s suitability to hold a certificate of qualification or if the violation would reasonably be regarded as placing one or more pupils in danger;
	g. signing or issuing a document in the registered teacher’s professional capacity that the registered teacher knows or ought to know contains a false, improper or misleading statement;
	h. falsifying a record relating to the registered teacher’s professional responsibilities;
	i. providing false information or documents to the registrar or to any other person with respect to the registered teacher’s professional qualifications.

### **Complaints** 

 If you have a complaint about a teacher’s conduct or competency, contact the Saskatchewan Professional Teachers Regulatory Board (SPTRB) at 306-352-2230. A member of the SPTRB’s staff will help you determine an appropriate course of action. Appropriate courses of action may include helping you to find a solution with the school division or helping you to file a complaint with the SPTRB.

Complaints must pertain to professional misconduct or professional incompetence and include the name of the teacher who is the subject of the complaint, the full name, address and telephone number of the person making the complaint, and a description of the conduct or actions of the teacher about which the complaint is being made. If you are submitting a complaint which includes multiple registered teachers, please ensure that you complete one form for each individual. 

Complaints may be submitted in writing, or recorded on a tape, film or disk and sent to: Office of the Registrar, 204 – 3775 Pasqua Street, Regina, SK S4S 6W8 or [registrar@sptrb.ca](mailto:registrar@sptrb.ca). 

If you are not able to submit your complaint online or record your complaint in writing, please contact the Office of the Registrar for assistance at 306-353-2230.

[[SPTRB Public Complaint Form.pdf]]

### FAQ
#### **What will happen to a teacher if there is a complaint about them?**

The Professional Conduct Committee (PCC) will review all written complaints regarding professional misconduct or professional incompetence.  If the PCC deems the complaint appropriate for further investigation (i.e. they have appropriate jurisdiction and the complaint isn't frivolous or vexatious), the PCC will investigate the complaint.  Once investigated, the PCC will determine next steps which may include:  
     (a) Taking no further action because, in its opinion, no further action is warranted on the facts of the case;  
     (b) Recommending a consent resolution process; or  
     (c) Determining a formal complaint and recommending that the Discipline Committee hear the formal complaint as set out by the PCC.
  
Note:  The teacher will be notified in writing that there has been a complaint made against him/her.

#### _What happens when a complaint is made?_

When the SPTRB receives a complaint about a teacher, the Registrar will, as soon as it is practicable, notify the teacher and provide him or her with a copy of the complaint in its entirety.  
  
##### **The Professional Conduct Committee**
When the Professional Conduct Committee meets to receive a complaint or an employer notice, it notifies, in writing, the teacher who is the subject of the complaint that a complaint has been received and requires the teacher to respond in writing within 20 business days.

The Professional Conduct Committee is responsible for taking the measures it deems necessary to investigate the complaint.

The Professional Conduct Committee may decide:
1. that the Discipline Committee will hear the complaint and file a formal complaint with the Discipline Committee;
2. that the matter is suitable for a consent resolution process;
3. that no further action is warranted on the facts of the case.

##### **The Discipline Committee**
The Discipline Committee is responsible for hearing the Professional Conduct Committee’s formal complaint. At the conclusion of a hearing the Discipline Committee may find the teacher either guilty or not guilty of the charges set out in the formal complaint. When the verdict is guilty, the Discipline Committee is responsible for making a disciplinary order. The discipline order may include: suspension or cancellation of a teacher’s certificate or other actions such as permitting the teacher to continue to teach subject to terms or conditions or any other order the Discipline Committee considers just.


---


> Shortly after its establishment, the SPTRB (2015a) published a document entitled, Standards of Professional Conduct, which laid out how teacher professional conduct would be regulated and investigated by the Board. This brochure sets out five standards of conduct that delineated principles for behaviour expected of Saskatchewan teachers. The SPTRB (2015b) standards state that registered teachers: 1. base their relationships with learners on mutual trust and respect, 2. have regard for the safety and academic, physical, emotional and spiritual well-being of learners, 3. act with honesty and integrity, 4. take responsibility for maintaining the quality of their practice, and 5. uphold public trust and confidence in the education profession.

[[Conduct Unbecoming - Teacher Professionalism, Ethical Codes, and Shifting Social Expectations.pdf#page=15&selection=35,0,58,63|Conduct Unbecoming - Teacher Professionalism, Ethical Codes, and Shifting Social Expectations, page 15]]

