> 6.2.2 ==To strive to make the teaching profession attractive and respected in ideals and practices.==

[[STF Bylaw 6.2 Code of Professional Ethics.pdf#page=1&selection=35,0,39,10|STF Bylaw 6.2 Code of Professional Ethics, page 1]]

> 6.2.9 To respond ==generously and appropriately to colleagues== seeking professional assistance.

[[STF Bylaw 6.2 Code of Professional Ethics.pdf#page=1&selection=70,0,73,86|STF Bylaw 6.2 Code of Professional Ethics, page 1]]

> 6.2.13 To ==respect== the various roles and responsibilities of individuals involved in the educational community.

[[STF Bylaw 6.2 Code of Professional Ethics.pdf#page=1&selection=91,0,95,10|STF Bylaw 6.2 Code of Professional Ethics, page 1]]

> 6.2 CODE OF PROFESSIONAL ETHICS 
> These are the ethical ideals for Saskatchewan teachers, expressed as commitments made by assuming the duties of a professional teacher within Saskatchewan’s publicly funded public education system. 
> Commitments to the Profession 
> 	6.2.1 To act ==at all times== in a way that maintains the ==honour and dignity== of the individual teacher and the teaching profession. 
> 	6.2.2 To strive to make the teaching profession attractive and ==respected in ideals== and practices.

[[STF Governance Handbook.pdf#page=53&selection=30,0,46,91|STF Governance Handbook, page 53]]

> 2.22 TEACHER'S WORKING ENVIRONMENTS
> 	2.22.1 Definitions 
> 	Teachers’ working environments refers to both the ==culture of the workplace== and the physical spaces in which teachers typically perform their professional roles and responsibilities, including: 
> 		(1) Teaching and learning spaces, including (but not limited to) the classroom. 
> 		(2) Physical conditions, referring to the condition of school buildings as well as other educational facilities and educational equipment, ergonomic factors, accessibility factors, interior air quality and climate control and other related aspects of the teaching and learning space. 
> 		(3) The values and norms that characterize ==interactions among staff, students, parents and caregivers and others with whom teachers interact.== Positive working environments refers to workspaces that reflect a commitment to well- being and are characterized by ==safe, respectful, ethical, healthy and equitable conditions.==

[[STF Governance Handbook.pdf#page=117&selection=46,0,71,91|STF Governance Handbook, page 117]]

> 2.22.2 Beliefs 
> 	...
> 	(2) ==Positive working environments== support teaching and learning. 
> 	(3) Positive working environments support ==staff retention== and promote ==enduring collegiality==. 
> 	...
> 	(5) Developing and maintaining ==positive working environments is a collective responsibility== shared amongst teachers, employers, school communities and the provincial government.
> 	...
> 	(7) The values and norms of teachers’ working environment must include: 
> 		(a) Employment policies and practices that promote equity, ==respectful relationships== and ethical conduct. 
> 		(b) ==Open and transparent communications== regarding issues or concerns about the working environment.
> 		...
> 		(d) ==Proactive== approaches to preventing harassment and violence.

[[STF Governance Handbook.pdf#page=117&selection=83,0,106,22|STF Governance Handbook, page 117]]

> 6.3.9 To ==work with colleagues in mutually supportive ways== and develop effective professional relationships with members of the educational community.

[[STF Governance Handbook.pdf#page=54&selection=55,0,58,56|STF Governance Handbook, page 54]]

