> 3. Guiding Principles 
> 	3.1. All employees are responsible for contributing to and maintaining a ==respectful workplace==.
> 	
> 	3.2. Where appropriate, early problem-solving mechanisms are preferred processes to resolve situations. Restorative processes focus on conflict resolution rather than blame or punishment.
> 	
> 	3.3. Where appropriate, the best resolution is developed with participation of the individuals involved directly and immediate supervisors, where required.
> 	
> 	3.4. Because problems are best resolved on an individual basis, conflict resolution procedures may be initiated only by individual employees and not by groups of employees. ==This does not preclude an individual employee from requesting support from the employee’s Union/Association.==

[[RPSD AP 406.pdf#page=1&selection=337,0,540,18|RPSD AP 406, page 1]]

> 5. Complaint Processes 
> 	5.1. The following steps should be followed in sequence until resolution is achieved or the employee believes an alternate resolution process is required. 
> 	
> 	5.2. Source of Complaint 
> 		5.2.1. The employee shall, in keeping with all professional obligations, address the complaint with the person or persons at the source of the issue, whenever possible. 
> 		
> 	5.3. Immediate Supervisor 
> 		5.3.1. If resolution is not achieved in 5.2, the employee shall, in keeping with all professional obligations, discuss the issue with their immediate supervisor. 
> 		5.3.2. The supervisor will follow up with the employee in person and provide a response to the complaint, in writing, within five working days. 
> 		
> 	5.4. Department Superintendent and Human Resources Superintendent 
> 		5.4.1. If resolution is not achieved in 5.3, the employee shall, in keeping with all professional obligations, outline the complaint in writing and submit it to the school or department Superintendent with a copy to the Superintendent of Human Resources. 
> 		5.4.2. The written complaint should describe the situation and the date when the incident(s) occurred and the suggested resolution. 
> 		5.4.3. The school or department Superintendent will follow up and respond, in writing, within 10 working days. 
> 		
> 	5.5. Deputy Director 
> 		5.5.1. If resolution is not achieved in 5.4, the employee shall, in keeping with all professional obligations, outline the complaint in writing and submit it to the department Deputy Director requesting a formal review. 
> 		5.5.2. The Deputy Director will follow up and respond, in writing, within 10 working days.

[[RPSD AP 406.pdf#page=2&selection=122,0,615,5|RPSD AP 406, page 2]]

> **Employee Engagement and Well-being** 
> The education system is only as well as those working within it. There was consistent concern for the well-being, professional development, and engagement of employees. ==A positive employee experience is necessary for student and organizational success.==
>  **Safety** 
>  ==The physical and mental safety of all within the Division must be paramount.== This includes system-wide policies and procedures as well as the Division’s organizational culture.

[[Regina Public Schools Strategic Plan.pdf#page=12&selection=90,0,112,27|Regina Public Schools Strategic Plan, page 12]]

> Strategic Priorities
> From the engagement conducted throughout the planning process, the following five Strategic Priorities emerged: 
> 	1. Engaged & Successful Students. 
> 	2. Equitable & ==Safe Environments.== 
> 	3. ==Healthy & Skilled Employees.== 
> 	4. Sustainable & ==Accountable== Operations.
> 	...

[[Regina Public Schools Strategic Plan.pdf#page=18&selection=0,0,16,37|Regina Public Schools Strategic Plan, page 18]]

